Financial reporting is governed by frameworks, setting out a common set of accepted principles, standards, guidelines and procedures which must be followed when financial statements are prepared. 
These are known collectively by the term GAAP, or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. These frameworks ensure that it is easier for investors, lenders, customers, competitors, 
suppliers, etc. to compare the performance of different businesses because the financial statements are prepared in a standardized manner.

Each country has its own GAAP, but the two most common frameworks used by publicly quoted companies are:

US GAAP (as developed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board – FASB) and 
IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards (as developed by the International Accounting Standards Board – IASB). 

While US GAAP predominates in the USA, more than 100 countries have adopted IFRS – for example, all quoted companies in the EU must use IFRS. 
While there are many similarities between US GAAP and IFRS and a desire to harmonize them, differences still remain. 
The major difference is that US GAAP is rules-based and IFRS is principles-based. This is evident in specific details and interpretations. 
IFRS is much less detailed than US GAAP. A benefit of IFRS is that financial statements can better reflect the nature of business transactions as it is harder to circumvent a principle, but a downfall is that greater disclosure may be required.

Differences include:

Inventory – US GAAP allows the Last In First Out (LIFO) methodology, whereas IFRS does not;
Revaluation of non-current assets – IFRS allows for this, within certain guidelines, whereas US GAAP does not;
Balance sheet layout – the allowed layouts vary between the two frameworks;
Development costs – IFRS allows for these to be capitalized within intangible assets under certain strict circumstances. However, this is not allowed under US GAAP; and
Impairment testing – the methodologies vary under both frameworks.
Due to the changing nature of businesses and business transactions, both frameworks continue to evolve. 
